And Jehovah spoke to Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, in the tent of meeting, on the first day of the second month, in the second year of their coming out of the land of Egypt. He said: “Take a census of the whole assembly of the Israelites individually according to their families, according to their paternal houses, according to the count of the names of all the males. You and Aaron are to register by their companies all those from 20 years old and up who can serve in the army in Israel.

“Take with you one man from each tribe; each one is to be a head of his paternal house. These are the names of the men who will stand with you: of Reuben, Elizur the son of Shedeur; of Simeon, Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai; of Judah, Nahshon the son of Amminadab; of Issachar, Nethanel the son of Zuar; of Zebulun, Eliab the son of Helon; of the sons of Joseph: from Ephraim, Elishama the son of Ammihud; from Manasseh, Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur; of Benjamin, Abidan the son of Gideoni; of Dan, Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai; of Asher, Pagiel the son of Ochran; of Gad, Eliasaph the son of Deuel; of Naphtali, Ahira the son of Enan. These are the ones summoned from the assembly. They are the chieftains of the tribes of their fathers, the heads of the thousands of Israel.”

So Moses and Aaron took these men who had been designated by name. They gathered all the assembly on the first day of the second month, so that they might be registered individually by name, by family, and by their paternal houses, from 20 years old and up, just as Jehovah had commanded Moses. So he registered them in the wilderness of Sinai.

The sons of Reuben, the descendants of Israel’s firstborn, were listed by name, by family, and by their paternal houses. All the males from 20 years old and up who could serve in the army were counted individually, and the number registered of the tribe of Reuben was 46,500.

The descendants of Simeon were listed by name, by family, and by their paternal houses. All the males from 20 years old and up who could serve in the army were counted individually, and the number registered of the tribe of Simeon was 59,300.

The descendants of Gad were listed by name, by family, and by their paternal houses. All the males from 20 years old and up who could serve in the army were counted, and the number registered of the tribe of Gad was 45,650.

The descendants of Judah were listed by name, by family, and by their paternal houses. All the males from 20 years old and up who could serve in the army were counted, and the number registered of the tribe of Judah was 74,600.

The descendants of Issachar were listed by name, by family, and by their paternal houses. All the males from 20 years old and up who could serve in the army were counted, and the number registered of the tribe of Issachar was 54,400.

The descendants of Zebulun were listed by name, by family, and by their paternal houses. All the males from 20 years old and up who could serve in the army were counted, and the number registered of the tribe of Zebulun was 57,400.

The descendants of Joseph through Ephraim were listed by name, by family, and by their paternal houses. All the males from 20 years old and up who could serve in the army were counted, and the number registered of the tribe of Ephraim was 40,500.

The descendants of Manasseh were listed by name, by family, and by their paternal houses. All the males from 20 years old and up who could serve in the army were counted, and the number registered of the tribe of Manasseh was 32,200.

The descendants of Benjamin were listed by name, by family, and by their paternal houses. All the males from 20 years old and up who could serve in the army were counted, and the number registered of the tribe of Benjamin was 35,400.

The descendants of Dan were listed by name, by family, and by their paternal houses. All the males from 20 years old and up who could serve in the army were counted, and the number registered of the tribe of Dan was 62,700.

The descendants of Asher were listed by name, by family, and by their paternal houses. All the males from 20 years old and up who could serve in the army were counted, and the number registered of the tribe of Asher was 41,500.

The descendants of Naphtali were listed by name, by family, and by their paternal houses. All the males from 20 years old and up who could serve in the army were counted, and the number registered of the tribe of Naphtali was 53,400.

These were registered by Moses together with Aaron and the 12 chieftains of Israel, each representing his paternal house. All the Israelites from 20 years old and up who could serve in the army in Israel were registered by their paternal house, and the total number registered was 603,550.

But the Levites were not registered in among them by the tribe of their fathers. So Jehovah told Moses: “Only the tribe of Levi you are not to register, and you should not include the number of them along with the other Israelites. You should appoint the Levites over the tabernacle of the Testimony and over all its utensils and over everything that belongs to it. They will carry the tabernacle and all its utensils, and they will minister at it, and they are to camp around the tabernacle. Whenever the tabernacle is to be moved, the Levites should take it down; and when the tabernacle is to be reassembled, the Levites should set it up; and any unauthorized person who comes near should be put to death.

“Each Israelite should set up his tent in his assigned camp, each man according to his three-tribe division by their companies. And the Levites should encamp around the tabernacle of the Testimony, so that no indignation may arise against the assembly of the Israelites; and the Levites must be responsible for the care of the tabernacle of the Testimony.”

The people of Israel did all that Jehovah had commanded Moses. They did just so.
